ARTIFACT.md, before:

# Pomsets w/ Transformers (a Coq formalization)

This repository contains Coq code supplementing the paper _Leaky Semicolon: Compositional Semantic Dependencies for Relaxed-Memory Concurrency_ by 
Alan Jeffrey, James Riely, Mark Batty, Simon Cooksey, Ilya Kaysin, and Anton Podkopaev.

## Getting started
The artifact consists of Coq formalization and proofs about _Pomsets w/ Transformers_.
There are two ways to evaluate the artifact:
- by using a virtual machine (VM) prepared by us;
- by using your own Coq setup via `opam`.
Below, we provide guidance for both approaches.
*We propose to start with building the project by following our instructions and then take a look at the main definitions and lemmas.*

### Using the Virtual Machine 
You need to get a [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) (tested w/ version 6.1.26) on your system and import the VM
`pwt.ova`. Please, note the following:
- The VM should be provided with at least 8GB of RAM.
- The VM is a Ubuntu 20.04 with `coq`, `coqide`, `vim` and `emacs` being set-up.
- Username and password are both `vagrant`.

The Coq code can be found in the folder `/home/vagrant/artifact`. To compile it,
you need to run `cd /home/vagrant/artifact && make -j4` in a terminal.
The same but pre-compiled code is located in the folder `/home/vagrant/artifact_compiled`.

There is a CoqIDE shortcut on the desktop, which could be used to explore the development.

### Using your own Coq setup with opam
All required dependencies can be installed via package manager [`opam` (version >= 2.0)](https://opam.ocaml.org/)
by running `./configure` from the project's root folder.
It installs:
- [Coq 8.13](https://coq.inria.fr)
- [Hahn library](https://github.com/vafeiadis/hahn) (`coq-hahn`)
- [Intermediate Memory Model](https://github.com/weakmemory/imm) (`coq-imm.1.4`)

The compilation and installation of `coq-imm.1.4` may take a lot of time (> 40 min).

After that, you may build the project by running `make -j4` from the project's root folder.

## Checking the artifact's code
After the project is compiled, you may want to check how the main definitions and results in Coq are related to the ones in the paper.

| Paper                                  | Description                                              | Coq file            | Coq statements                                                     |
| ---                                    | ---                                                      | ---                 | ---                                                                |
| §4.1                                   | definitions of statements _S_ and expressions _M_        | `Language.v`        | `Expr.t` and `Stmt.t`                                              |
| §4.3, Def. 4.2                         | a definition of predicate transformers                   | `PredTransformer.v` | `Record predTransformer`                                           |
| §4.3, Def. 4.4                         | a definition of pomsets with predicate transformers      | `Pomset.v`          | `Record pomset` and `Record wf` <br /> (well-formedness predicate) |
| §4.3, Fig. 1 and <br /> §9.4, Def. 9.6 | the PwT semantics extended to allow if-closure           | `Semantics.v`       | `Inductive Semantics`                                              |
| ---                                    | ---                                                      | ---                 | ---                                                                |
| §4.3, Lemma 4.5a                       | `skip` as an identity element for the semicolon operator | `SeqSkipId.v`       | lemmas  `skip_seq_id_left` <br /> and `skip_seq_id_right`          |
| §4.3, Lemma 4.5b                       | associativity of the semicolon operator                  | `SeqAssoc.v`        | lemma `seq_assoc`                                                  |
| §4.3, Lemma 4.6e                       | distribution of the if operator over semicolon           | `IfClosure.v`       | lemma `if_closure`                                                 |

Our proofs of the main lemmas use the following axioms (and no other assumptions):
- Excluded middle, XM (`classic` from `Coq.Logic.Classical_Prop`);
- (Dependent) Functional Extensionality, (D)FE (`functional_extensionality_dep` from `Coq.Logic.FunctionalExtensionality`);
- Constructive Definite Description, CDD (`constructive_definite_description` from `Coq.Logic.Description`).

You may check that by taking a look at files
- `skip_seq_id_left.axioms.out`, `skip_seq_id_right.axioms.out`, `seq_assoc.axioms.out`, and `if_closure.axioms.out`.

They are generated during the project compilation by `Print Assumptions` instructions at the end of `SeqSkipId.v`, `SeqAssoc.v`, and `IfClosure.v` files.

To check that the project does not contain admitted facts, you may want to run the following script from the project's root folder:

``` bash
grep dmit src/*.v

```

## Description of the project's files

### Basic definitions of the semantics
- `Events.v` – a definition of events (§4.1)
- `Language.v` – definitions of statements _S_ and expressions _M_ (§4.1)
- `Formula.v` – a language of formulas Φ (§4.1)
- `Action.v` — a definition of actions and related notions (§4.2)
- `PredTransformer.v` — a definition of predicate transformers (§4.3, Def. 4.2)
- `Pomset.v` — a definition of pomsets with predicate transformers (§4.3, Def. 4.4)
- `Semantics.v` — the PwT semantics extended to allow if-closure (§4.3, Fig. 1 and §9.4, Def. 9.6)

### Properties of the semantics
- `SeqSkipId.v` — `skip` as an identity element for the semicolon operator (§4.3, Lemma 4.5a)
- `SeqAssoc.v` — associativity of the semicolon operator (§4.3, Lemma 4.5b)
- `IfClosure.v` — distribution of the if operator over semicolon (§4.3, Lemma 4.6e)

### Auxiliary definitions and lemmas
- `AuxDef.v`, `AuxRel.v`, `SeqBuilder.v`

Commit message:

ARTIFACT.md: added a permanent link to a VM image

ARTIFACT.md, after:

# Pomsets w/ Transformers (a Coq formalization)

This artifact contains Coq code supplementing the paper _Leaky Semicolon: Compositional Semantic Dependencies for Relaxed-Memory Concurrency_ by 
Alan Jeffrey, James Riely, Mark Batty, Simon Cooksey, Ilya Kaysin, and Anton Podkopaev.

#### Quick links
- Browse the development at GitHub: [online](https://github.com/weakmemory/pwt)
- VirtualBox image: [online](https://podkopaev.net/popl22-pwt-artifact.html)

## Getting started
The artifact consists of Coq formalization and proofs about _Pomsets w/ Transformers_.
There are two ways to evaluate the artifact:
- by using a virtual machine (VM) prepared by us;
- by using your own Coq setup via `opam`.
Below, we provide guidance for both approaches.
*We propose to start with building the project by following our instructions and then take a look at the main definitions and lemmas.*

### Using the Virtual Machine 
You need to get a [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) (tested w/ version 6.1.26) on your system and import the VM
`pwt.ova`. Please, note the following:
- The VM should be provided with at least 8GB of RAM.
- The VM is better to be provided with 4 CPUs (but 2 CPUs should be enough).
- The VM is a Ubuntu 18.04 with `coq`, `coqide`, `vim` and `emacs` being set-up.
- Username and password are both `vagrant`.

The Coq code can be found in the folder `/home/vagrant/artifact`. To compile it,
you need to run `cd /home/vagrant/artifact && make -j4` in a terminal.
The same but pre-compiled code is located in the folder `/home/vagrant/artifact_compiled`.

There is a CoqIDE shortcut on the desktop, which could be used to explore the development.

### Using your own Coq setup with opam
All required dependencies can be installed via package manager [`opam` (version >= 2.0)](https://opam.ocaml.org/)
by running `./configure` from the project's root folder.
It installs:
- [Coq 8.13](https://coq.inria.fr)
- [Hahn library](https://github.com/vafeiadis/hahn) (`coq-hahn`)
- [Intermediate Memory Model](https://github.com/weakmemory/imm) (`coq-imm.1.4`)

The compilation and installation of `coq-imm.1.4` may take a lot of time (> 40 min).

After that, you may build the project by running `make -j4` from the project's root folder.

## Checking the artifact's code
After the project is compiled, you may want to check how the main definitions and results in Coq are related to the ones in the paper.

| Paper                                  | Description                                              | Coq file            | Coq statements                                                     |
| ---                                    | ---                                                      | ---                 | ---                                                                |
| §4.1                                   | definitions of statements _S_ and expressions _M_        | `Language.v`        | `Expr.t` and `Stmt.t`                                              |
| §4.3, Def. 4.2                         | a definition of predicate transformers                   | `PredTransformer.v` | `Record predTransformer`                                           |
| §4.3, Def. 4.4                         | a definition of pomsets with predicate transformers      | `Pomset.v`          | `Record pomset` and `Record wf` <br /> (well-formedness predicate) |
| §4.3, Fig. 1 and <br /> §9.4, Def. 9.6 | the PwT semantics extended to allow if-closure           | `Semantics.v`       | `Inductive Semantics`                                              |
| ---                                    | ---                                                      | ---                 | ---                                                                |
| §4.3, Lemma 4.5a                       | `skip` as an identity element for the semicolon operator | `SeqSkipId.v`       | lemmas  `skip_seq_id_left` <br /> and `skip_seq_id_right`          |
| §4.3, Lemma 4.5b                       | associativity of the semicolon operator                  | `SeqAssoc.v`        | lemma `seq_assoc`                                                  |
| §4.3, Lemma 4.6e                       | distribution of the if operator over semicolon           | `IfClosure.v`       | lemma `if_closure`                                                 |

Our proofs of the main lemmas use the following axioms (and no other assumptions):
- Excluded middle, XM (`classic` from `Coq.Logic.Classical_Prop`);
- (Dependent) Functional Extensionality, (D)FE (`functional_extensionality_dep` from `Coq.Logic.FunctionalExtensionality`);
- Constructive Definite Description, CDD (`constructive_definite_description` from `Coq.Logic.Description`).

You may check that by taking a look at files
- `skip_seq_id_left.axioms.out`, `skip_seq_id_right.axioms.out`, `seq_assoc.axioms.out`, and `if_closure.axioms.out`.

They are generated during the project compilation by `Print Assumptions` instructions at the end of `SeqSkipId.v`, `SeqAssoc.v`, and `IfClosure.v` files.

To check that the project does not contain admitted facts, you may want to run the following script from the project's root folder:

``` bash
grep dmit src/*.v

```

## Description of the project's files

### Basic definitions of the semantics
- `Events.v` – a definition of events (§4.1)
- `Language.v` – definitions of statements _S_ and expressions _M_ (§4.1)
- `Formula.v` – a language of formulas Φ (§4.1)
- `Action.v` — a definition of actions and related notions (§4.2)
- `PredTransformer.v` — a definition of predicate transformers (§4.3, Def. 4.2)
- `Pomset.v` — a definition of pomsets with predicate transformers (§4.3, Def. 4.4)
- `Semantics.v` — the PwT semantics extended to allow if-closure (§4.3, Fig. 1 and §9.4, Def. 9.6)

### Properties of the semantics
- `SeqSkipId.v` — `skip` as an identity element for the semicolon operator (§4.3, Lemma 4.5a)
- `SeqAssoc.v` — associativity of the semicolon operator (§4.3, Lemma 4.5b)
- `IfClosure.v` — distribution of the if operator over semicolon (§4.3, Lemma 4.6e)

### Auxiliary definitions and lemmas
- `AuxDef.v`, `AuxRel.v`, `SeqBuilder.v`
